# -cyber-security
course documents
CISSP has defined eight domains ​to organize the work of security professionals. ​It's important to understand that these domains are related and that gaps in one ​domain can result in negative consequences to an entire organization. ​It's also important to understand the domains because it may help ​you better understand your career goals and your role within an organization. ​As you learn more about the elements of each domain, ​the work involved in one may appeal to you more than the others. 
​This domain may become a career path for you to explore further. ​CISSP defines eight domains in total, and ​we'll discuss all eight between this video and the next. ​In this video, we're going to cover the first four: ​security and risk management, asset security, ​security architecture and engineering, and communication and network security. ​Let's start with the first domain, security and risk management. ​Security and risk management focuses on defining security goals and objectives, ​risk mitigation, compliance, business continuity, and the law. ​For example, security analysts may need to update company policies ​related to private health information ​if a change is made to a federal compliance regulation such as ​the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, also known as HIPAA. ​The second domain is asset security. 
​This domain focuses on securing digital and physical assets. ​It's also related to the storage, maintenance, retention, and ​destruction of data. ​When working with this domain, security analysts may be tasked with ​making sure that old equipment is properly disposed of and ​destroyed, including any type of confidential information. ​The third domain is security architecture and engineering. ​This domain focuses on optimizing data security by ensuring effective tools, ​systems, and processes are in place. ​As a security analyst, you may be tasked with configuring a firewall. ​A firewall is a device used to monitor and filter incoming and ​outgoing computer network traffic. 
​Setting up a firewall correctly helps prevent attacks that could affect ​productivity. ​The fourth security domain is communication and network security. ​This domain focuses on managing and securing physical networks and ​wireless communications. ​As a security analyst, ​you may be asked to analyze user behavior within your organization. ​Imagine discovering that users are connecting to unsecured wireless hotspots. ​This could leave the organization and its employees vulnerable to attacks. ​To ensure communications are secure, you would create a network policy to ​prevent and mitigate exposure. 
​Maintaining an organization's security is a team effort, and ​there are many moving parts. ​As an entry-level analyst, you will continue to develop your skills ​by learning how to mitigate risks to keep people and data safe. ​You don't need to be an expert in all domains. But, having a basic understanding ​of them will aid you in your journey as a security professional. ​You're doing great! We have just introduced the first four security ​domains, and in the next video, we'll discuss four more! ​See you soon!
